welcome to module 2 lesson three
identifying your customers jobs to be
done in this lesson we'll be unpacking
the jobs to be done framework developed
by Tony Oldwick founder of strategy he
developed this framework to identify
outcomes that customers seek as opposed
to products they want it's become a
popular Concept in B2B marketing and
advertising that can be applied to help
us create engaging campaigns why because
people buy products and services to get
a job done not just to buy another thing
like your cat Harding grandmother by
understanding why your customers buy or
hire our company it puts them and their
life at the heart of your advertising
story it will help you identify what
pain points you're helping your customer
solve to get to the root of what
motivates them at the end of the day
your advertising campaign should be
about them and not you and everyone
wants to be the main character am I
right you can use the jobs to be done
framework when you're launching a new
advertising campaign or when you want to
improve the conversion rates of your
existing campaigns so let's jump in the
most impactful way to start is to
identify three to current customers you
can interview that either bought
recently or fit into your ICB definition
of your ideal target market remember the
buyer Persona lesson this will be your
best friend to help you identify the
right people to interview and once you
identifi those customers use this
interview Matrix when chatting with them
this will be the key information you're
looking to uncover to get the right
golden nuggets to make the campaign
shine so let's now jump into the
workbook so I can walk you through this
Matrix all right so here's the jobs we
done interview Matrix make sure to go to
file and make a copy of your own so with
all your five customers you can label
them on the left-hand Rail and then
strategically you can ask them questions
to identify number one the situation and
pain points that they're uh that they're
going through their motivation and to
why they particularly wanted to look
into your service what triggered them to
really move forward with your service
what's the ideal outcome that they're
looking for and then really what are the
other competitors that they were
evaluating and then here's the last call
this is probably my favorite because it
also details their personality
characteristics like the dis personality
you can use different resources to find
that um and there's really cool ones
like Crystal nose that will scrape their
LinkedIn profile to give you their dis
type but it will label how they like and
prefer to be communicated with and their
style and tone because this will
ultimately influence the messaging that
you can create for each customer here's
some helpful interview questions as well
so let's actually show you a real case
scenario let's take Spotify for example
I love Spotify so if I were doing a
interview with a Spotify customer this
is kind of how it would look like right
so with their situation and pain points
the customer could probably answer you
with hey look I get tired of hearing the
same songs on the radio who doesn't I
can't easily hear the exact song I want
to hear so and then their motivation
they could say hey look I want to hear
specific songs when I want so the
trigger and for them to looking for new
products I'm in the gym and I need a
song to pump me up so their ideal
outcome would then be I want to listen
to music I choose anywhere and
everywhere in order to do that they're
evaluating different solutions so they
could be evaluating well they've got the
radio they've got XM radio they've got
Pandora Apple music or they can sit in
silence those are all the competitors
that they're evaluating all right and in
the last column this is all their
personality characteristics so you can
label their dis personality and right
here you can see like they have a trail
bait Blazer ID personality so that just
means look they like confident Style
with a mix of informality and formality
which gives them attention we label the
pace the tone the tactics to win the
like strong words focus on results
respectful confidence all of this will
help you really understand your personas
and your customers to really build that
job sweed done interview Matrix and if I
were Spotify this is how I would really
build an ad to serve those specific ific
interview style questions and pain
points that we just uncovered with them
so here's a great example teach your old
stereo New Tricks here's another one the
best thing to happen in car since the
stereo so I think you get the point that
we used all of these interview questions
in The Matrix to really understand
what's really motivating them so we can
really hit on what's going to trigger
them to look into our product so the
main takeaway is that you can make your
ad campaigns even stronger when you know
what job your customers are hiring your
product your service to take care of
just look at the Spotify example so your
action item for this lesson is to
perform this job speed on Matrix on five
of your most recent customers or future
customers if you don't have any yet
we're going to build on this new
understanding you have in the next
lesson where we'll pull buyer Persona
and jobs to be done together to make
your ad campaign truly shy if you enjoy
this course and found it insightful
share it with your work buddies or leave
a testimonial we want to change the
lives of so many more marketers so make
sure to share I'll see you in the next
lesson